Ian C: Anybody out there.
John Mertic: Hey this is john Martin from Linux Foundation.
Ian C: Oh hi john
John Mertic: Hey how's it going
Ian C: Good. I was wondering if I was connected
John Mertic: You were, you were just sitting here on mute.
Gillian Hannington: Oh, I was on mute. Hi Jill's joined
Ian C: Digital
Ian C: I'm going back on mute. So I can eat my breakfast and silence.
Kip Twitchell: Well, okay, so I'm unmuted. I'm talking white in why you're going on. Eat your breakfast. That would be kind of fun. No, no.
Kip Twitchell: So we have our rooms here. Hello, glad
Kip Twitchell: You're joining a room where are you joining from remind me.
Arun V PRASAD: I'm joining from us and part of the FTP vivante
Kip Twitchell: Great, thanks for inviting me and God energy has joined here to true deep is in Kolkata, I believe if you're joining from their charity.
Kip Twitchell: Glad to have you tried to
Joydeep Banerjee: Morning.
Kip Twitchell: Glad to have you join us. Thanks for joining us.
John Mertic: Alright, hey can't buy Wendy you waiting for a few a few more people are. Wait, what do you
Kip Twitchell: You know, I don't know that it's critical to wait for people. But I thought
Kip Twitchell: We might have a couple more joining
John Mertic: Us to give it another minute.
Or
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, give it just another minute john
Ian C: Rhonda was coming.
Kip Twitchell: I think Randall, I would expect her handle to be on
Kip Twitchell: I think you're right.
Ian C: Zoom.
Kip Twitchell: In interval to our work so far.
Ian C: I'll ping them through
Ian C: Slack.
Kip Twitchell: Good.
Kip Twitchell: He says he's having trouble and soon so
Kip Twitchell: I'll just say no pressure and
Kip Twitchell: He's making an account, I suspect.
John Mertic: There should be also a dial. And I don't know if it was in the invite. But in
John Mertic: A dial and as well. In case he blamed us that
Kip Twitchell: Maybe
Kip Twitchell: I don't know if it's in the invite.
Kip Twitchell: On the
Kip Twitchell: Calendar.
John Mertic: And you know what, I think if
John Mertic: If you click on the in the participants. There's a little button that says invite and then it comes up with this whole gigantic list of people and then you can copy invitation. And in that invitation and we'll have all the islands to if you want to send that to them.
Kip Twitchell: So let's see. I'm in the meeting invite here.
John Mertic: Invite and then there should be a dialogue that comes up with contacts, but at the bottom, there's two links. One of them is copy invite link and copy invitation.
John Mertic: Did you hit the copy invitation should end up being something
Kip Twitchell: That looks like it's making sure that is no i don't think i have
12068498832: Okay, that'll mess joining well randomness is joining so we don't
Kip Twitchell: Need to do that.
12068498832: Alright.
12068498832: Their success. Jim says he's having problems. So I'm going to tell him to get in the same way I did.
Kip Twitchell: Excellent. Whatever the backdoor was that you use Randall would be great.
Yeah.
12068498832: Once we figured out the first time. Hopefully it's easier for
Kip Twitchell: Both so we've got a number of other people that have joined while we've been waiting
Kip Twitchell: We have Mr McCORMICK HAS JOINED from Australia.
Kip Twitchell: I bought
Bob McCormack: It. I kept
Bob McCormack: Me everyone
Kip Twitchell: Thomas fun. I think Thomas you joining us from Asia. So right
Thomas Fung: Yes, hi. Hi, good evening yeah i'm john from HSBC
12068498832: Joining from Hong Kong.
Kip Twitchell: Glad to hear that Thomas. Thanks for joining us.
Thank you.
Kip Twitchell: And Regina, I think, is joining us as well.
Rajdeepsingh RISALDAR: I am joining from HSBC India, we
Kip Twitchell: Were in India, are you
Rajdeepsingh RISALDAR: I'm pretty good.
Kip Twitchell: Excellent today.
12068498832: Good.
12068498832: Yep.
John Mertic: Do we, I guess we're kind of leaning already into introductions. I don't know if we want
John Mertic: To continue and do a little bit of around the room there.
Introductions
Kip Twitchell: That would be good if you
Kip Twitchell: But I see a couple of phone numbers that have joined, so I don't know who exactly
Kip Twitchell: Those are, I think, one might be Randalls four number looks like a 206 is that Washington Randall.
12068498832: Yes that's me.
12068498832: Right.
Kip Twitchell: Randomness joining
Kip Twitchell: And we have a 618 area code.
Kip Twitchell: As well.
Kip Twitchell: It's on me, I will be Jim
12068498832: Jim
Correct.
12068498832: Yeah, let's y'all. Tell them do Star six to unmute Jim
Kip Twitchell: Star six
16185670667: Hey, that sounds like Jim
Kip Twitchell: Holiday chesty
16185670667: Yep. Like, for some reason I can't join the zoom
16185670667: PC.
Kip Twitchell: Tim, it's just
Kip Twitchell: It's it's it's it's just so my personal with you. OK.
Andrea orth: Change over time.
Kip Twitchell: The same old feelings around you. Please come to be insulted Andrea. If you'd like to join our meeting.
Kip Twitchell: And then we have Andrew see you. It's joined. I don't think I welcome to you and
andrew siu: Good evening, everyone. I'm so I'm from hitches. She's in Hong Kong.
Kip Twitchell: Hong Kong. So we've got another person from Hong Kong. Excellent. We've been fortunate here team that that we we didn't have anyone who expressed interest from the UK and joining so we could have this at a more favorable time for all of us.
Kip Twitchell: As opposed to trying to fit in the UK team as well.
Kip Twitchell: So that's pretty good.
12068498832: I think
Just
Kip Twitchell: I think this is probably enough
Kip Twitchell: For US HERE, JOHN, are you going, I don't see sandy person she might
Kip Twitchell: Be joining as well and
12068498832: Some others, but I think we can go ahead and get started here with
Some
John Mertic: Awesome.
John Mertic: Awesome. Well,
John Mertic: Welcome everybody to the kickoff meeting of the Geneva ERS technical steering committee.
John Mertic: I know we did some light introductions between Members.
John Mertic: Of the group already
John Mertic: So maybe we could just kind of, you know, start to kick into
John Mertic: The sort of getting a little bit information and I'm going to
John Mertic: apologize ahead of time.
John Mertic: The kickoff meeting is very procedural
John Mertic: It is the least talking about technology and the technology of any meeting, we will have
John Mertic: The good news is, after this, you'll get to hear less for me and you'll be able to have more technical discussions on the project.
John Mertic: You know, so really this eight
John Mertic: Years to get things kicked off, get the infrastructure going get a cadence of meetings.
John Mertic: And to get things sort of pointed in the right direction.
John Mertic: So really,
John Mertic: About five key things on the agenda. We've already knocked off one of just welcoming
Everybody
John Mertic: You know, we have another item here is a sort of
John Mertic: Talk about the purpose and what the role of the technical steering
John Mertic: Committee is
John Mertic: This per very much presuming
That this is
John Mertic: A new
John Mertic: You know body that many of you have ever
John Mertic: Participated in it sounds like number of you are also
John Mertic: Two degree we knew and participating in open source as
Well,
John Mertic: And so we'll try to spend a few minutes of orienting to that. And I'm also very happy. For those of you who might need some guidance or questions or things like that.
John Mertic: To answer questions or even take them offline.
John Mertic: We're going to look to kind of a line at a potential chairperson.
John Mertic: And a secretary
John Mertic: And we'll talk about both of
John Mertic: Those roles.
John Mertic: Of what they are. I will ask us, we're going
John Mertic: Through here. If somebody maybe wants to take the duty for this first meeting of taking notes of the meeting. And again, this doesn't have to be.
John Mertic: Anything of congressional quality here.
John Mertic: It's really, we just want to capture who attended some of the key talking points actions and things there.
John Mertic: So I don't know if somebody maybe wants to take that on for the the first meeting here of the group.
Kip Twitchell: Good john
Bob McCormack: This is Bob by can do that if you like.
John Mertic: Awesome.
John Mertic: Awesome. Thank you so much, Bob.
12068498832: Um, yeah.
John Mertic: That would, that would be great. Um, we'll go through just sort of a little bit in the infrastructure side, I think we have a lot of this together, Kip is doing a great job and working with a number of you.
John Mertic: Have just sort of going through sort of the full
John Mertic: Checklist of items of getting infrastructure and transition going. And so we'll take a quick pass at we're at fat and then we went to touch on the cadence of these meetings and just sort of determine where that fits with the group.
John Mertic: And depending upon if there's other time allotted
12068498832: Um,
John Mertic: You know, certainly.
John Mertic: You know, Kip if whoever if we want to dig into any
John Mertic: Technical items of the project.
John Mertic: Yeah, certainly we can we can grab some time for that as well. Excellent. That sounds good. For today, everyone. Any, any questions on this.
12068498832: Agenda
12068498832: I think
Kip Twitchell: John you're the expert on how we should run our first
Kip Twitchell: Meeting. So I'm I'm fully on board.
Kip Twitchell: With what you're doing so great.
John Mertic: Awesome. Awesome. Well, thank you so much. I appreciate the vote of confidence here.
John Mertic: And yeah, this is, this is the number 13
John Mertic: Project TASC we've got going here and the open mainframe project. So I think kip you did the blog post on it. Y'all are lucky number 13 so the entire project is
John Mertic: Very, very excited.
John Mertic: We have a meeting of the open mainframe.
John Mertic: Project Governing Board.
John Mertic: Which is sort of the business end of
John Mertic: The overall Foundation, which are going to be really excited about.
John Mertic: The progress of
John Mertic: Already getting out of the gate here.
John Mertic: So what's there and kick into the really a purpose and what the role of the TASC is in T IC stands for technical steering committee.
John Mertic: And within the concept of an open source project and, at least the ones that we have here within the Linux Foundation and they're similar.
John Mertic: Sorts of bodies.
John Mertic: You know, you might see an other
John Mertic: Technical communities or other foundations that
John Mertic: Host projects as well. Generally speaking, this is sort of the core group of
People within the project.
12068498832: That
John Mertic: Are the leaders and leaders in a sense of being able to help set direction within the
John Mertic: Community, I'm
John Mertic: help resolve issues, concerns that are happening within the Community.
John Mertic: Health be supportive of the community, you know, whether that would be people who are just downstream users, whether that'd be people who are looking to contribute in some way.
John Mertic: You know, and so on and so forth. And the TSA also gets in the space of helping mediate any issues or anything sensitive that might come up within the community as well. So think of this group is sort of a lot of the final arbitrator.
John Mertic: We see a good TASC generally is one that is
John Mertic: Looking to be in lockstep with their
John Mertic: Community and
John Mertic: Be in a supportive role so sort of
John Mertic: Less of what what my knee might use the terminology of like a dictator escrow but it's it's really one of those people know
John Mertic: The ins and outs of the community, they
John Mertic: They know the constituents that really care about.
John Mertic: This
12068498832: They have connections within the
12068498832: Key vendors and the
John Mertic: Key users that are taking this stuff into production and they're
John Mertic: Here to
John Mertic: Be an advocate on that. Well, but also understand of what needs to drive forward for the overall success of the community I'm technical steering committees are open to anybody.
John Mertic: They are not closed meetings. Typically, occasionally, and very rarely, actually, we see a TLC meeting closed and that's usually because there's a very sensitive issue that's coming to play.
John Mertic: But largely speaking. They're very open to the community and generally we actually see a lot of people that are often looking to get involved in the project the TASC meeting is a great first
John Mertic: touch point for them. Um,
John Mertic: So never feel worried about driving new
John Mertic: People to this meeting and
John Mertic: Worried that you might scare them off. You know, it's actually a really good touch point for getting people things going
John Mertic: Myself from a staff perspective. I'm here to support this group, I tend to we tend from the Linux Foundation.
John Mertic: Really be here as a facilitating support role. We want the community to be able to take the lead and ownership of the direction
John Mertic: And we're here to help support the activities around it help resolve any concerns that may be come up that the TLC has questions about
John Mertic: Along with also anything on a legal aspect or even a governance aspect, you know, we're able to help get involved to ensure that the project is ran in a
John Mertic: fair, equitable and vendor neutral fashion. Um, so all of you, and many of you I know have been tapped to be initial members of the TASC and that just really means you have a voting right to seize typically don't vote in a lot of things. So
John Mertic: You know, for those of you aren't it's, you know, certainly not.
John Mertic: A concern, you know, definitely doesn't feel like
John Mertic: You know of any any worry about us.
12068498832: This is definitely still an opportunity to stay engaged with the
John Mertic: Project and be a part of these meetings and
John Mertic: Find ways to
12068498832: Support and oftentimes we
John Mertic: TLC sort of admin flow and grow and over time.
John Mertic: And I'll pause there probably rattle on a little bit about what the TSA is all about. I know this is probably a new to many of you. So I want to just open the floor here for any questions on how things typically work.
Kip Twitchell: John maybe I could add in since you've been tutoring me over the last month, just a little bit about what you've said the the TASC typically with the
Kip Twitchell: Open Source community starts with
Kip Twitchell: Matters right people who have the authority to update the code and commit code to a repository is kind of a key point in
Kip Twitchell: In any sort
Kip Twitchell: Of open source community that you gain respect and are trusted
Kip Twitchell: by your peers to be able to update code. And so, you know, kind of, as we've been organizing this over the last month we're evaluating
Kip Twitchell: We're starting from position of who has that ability to update the code today because the code is sensitive and we want to make sure we we treat it with respect and so. But as you've been coaching us right
Kip Twitchell: We are fully committed. So most of the people.
Kip Twitchell: That can update coach today really
Kip Twitchell: Are IBM employees, but we're fully committed
Kip Twitchell: To this becoming an open source community. And so as we have participants growing in their participation.
Kip Twitchell: And their ability to to to participate in add code and have that code respected and and gain the respect of the community to update will be looking to
Kip Twitchell: Grow who is on the, the committee and such for controlling the organization. We're excited. Let me just say, I guess, on behalf of myself and
Kip Twitchell: And the genie. The ERS people historically. I'm excited to have all of you here. This is a great step. I think a lot of energy is flowing in the team we've already have a number of people participating over the last few weeks.
12068498832: And actually,
Kip Twitchell: month and a half. Now, some even before we accepted as a
Kip Twitchell: Incubation project and standing previous case join him in the project. So it's just exciting to to be here with you all, and and running TONIGHT. THANKS FOR JOINING US. JOHN thanks for hosting us. It's great.
John Mertic: Absolutely. Yeah, thanks for thanks for adding a lot of those bits in there.
John Mertic: Any other questions from the group on you know the TASC while you're all here today, sort of what your roles are as a part of the community.
Kip Twitchell: You know john I might say a comment about what might be a question which I don't quite know how to answer myself yet, you know, we have, we do have customers that are using
Kip Twitchell: saffery Geneva ers.
Kip Twitchell: And, you know, we're quite grateful to have you joining here with us and we're looking for feedback from you how you'd like to participate and what your roles would look like it.
Kip Twitchell: Perhaps you're not looking to update code, specifically, but will be, you know, certainly, you're a key piece of this whole process. And so that's one thing that I think will be exploring
Kip Twitchell: How do our, our
Kip Twitchell: Customers representatives and such join in this this group and what roles do they take them wherever they want to
Kip Twitchell: Take have
Kip Twitchell: How do they want to participate.
Kip Twitchell: Any other comments, I think maybe we're all one
John Mertic: Yeah.
John Mertic: And certainly if there's things that come up over after the meeting, you can always feel free to reach out to
12068498832: Myself or kip or both of
John Mertic: Us or anybody
John Mertic: Or even on the mailing list that I think a number of
John Mertic: Purity subscribe to answer.
John Mertic: We're happy to answer any questions.
Or things as they come up.
John Mertic: So let's
John Mertic: Let's move forward here.
John Mertic: In the next item chairperson in Secretary role. Um, and these are two really important roles for the project.
John Mertic: The, the chairperson role.
John Mertic: You know as ends up being very to factor the lead of the
Project
John Mertic: within our communities. We see the biggest thing that project leads are there to do is to really serve the community and and help ensure that we're the community and everybody from contributors competitors, you know, downstream users and other TASC members.
John Mertic: You know, seeking value the projects going sort of the general
John Mertic: Direction, they're looking for, you know, there's certainly a lot of the TLC chair is there to help also lead the mediation have any concerns or questions or issues that come up
12068498832: Within the community.
John Mertic: I tend to work very closely with the TASC chair on this project strategy and helping with any guidance that I can on the best practices within open source and kind of getting a community off the ground.
John Mertic: This person also will lead these meetings going
John Mertic: Forward, which is a positive thing. Did you get here, less of me and you get to hear more of this person.
John Mertic: And and certainly this usually the TC chairperson really works very closely with the community to make sure the topics discussed here. I'm very useful.
John Mertic: We also work with the chairperson as really the spokesperson for the community. So as we would look to talk about the
John Mertic: Project publicly so
John Mertic: You know, for example, will be doing a news announcement at our open source summit event in September, if it's if that's hopefully, that is an event that is on your radar. I'll do my due.
John Mertic: Diligence here and drop a link into
John Mertic: The chat here momentarily. So you can learn a little bit more about it. Um,
John Mertic: So we would use this person is basically any spokesperson for the project in you know any sort of outbound communication or messaging.
John Mertic: That we would do such as, you know, press releases, things like
John Mertic: That blog post. Anytime there would be folks that are interested in talking more about the
John Mertic: Project
John Mertic: You know, this is sort of the point person that we would work with
John Mertic: You know, from that perspective.
John Mertic: Oftentimes we do CTS V chairs will get other people in the
John Mertic: Community involved. You know, they tend not to want to have all the burden themselves, but they, they tend to
John Mertic: Really pass that around.
John Mertic: Um, electing a chairperson. Um, can have very variable term limits each community we sort of leave it to them to figure out what makes sense. Some groups, choose sort of a period to
Reevaluate or reelect
John Mertic: Some basically say, you can be the chairperson until you're done doing it.
John Mertic: You know others.
John Mertic: Might have other sort of mechanisms we sort of leave it to the community to sort of figure out those details.
John Mertic: I guess I say that of in if anybody who is interested or if there's interest for anybody for be the tsu chairperson. It's not like something you're be signing up for the rest of your life for
John Mertic: Their input you know there are others can can step up and take charge that way. So that's the one role. And then the second role is the secretary role.
John Mertic: We have some projects that choose to have a dedicated secretary and basically their biggest role is
John Mertic: compiling the minutes in notes.
John Mertic: For a meeting.
John Mertic: distributing them out, ensuring that
John Mertic: You know any of the action items are well
John Mertic: You know, established and then also working
John Mertic: in any capacity with the chairperson, to make sure that the agenda and stuff for TLC meetings are out there.
John Mertic: We have some projects that have a dedicated person do this. We have a lot of other projects that basically have it as a round robin so the chair just kind of starts at the beginning of the mini meeting just like I did, and
12068498832: Said,
John Mertic: Who wants to take notes and that person's on point to do
It.
John Mertic: It doesn't really matter. I think each project likes to work a little
John Mertic: Differently. There's pros and cons of both approaches. Some people really like to take notes so projects. Don't stop them.
John Mertic: So anyways, I'll pause there um
John Mertic: Any questions you might have in that. And also, if
John Mertic: If you all have any interest in
John Mertic: You know anybody in specific that you would want to look to serve and either one of these roles.
12068498832: I nominated kip Twitchell for chair.
John Mertic: I will say that we were not entirely
John Mertic: Surprised by such a nomination coming through.
Kip Twitchell: Randall was my boss for a number of years. So I don't know how I feel about being nominated by Randall, but
Andrea orth: No one else was looking at
Yeah.
John Mertic: Anyone else have any nominations, or anybody else who's going to kind
John Mertic: Of come on top, you know, pile on top of that.
Ian C: Go for it.
Kip Twitchell: Sounds like that's a second
John Mertic: Day I sounds like that's a second I
John Mertic: Do I hear sort of a unanimous that that kip is the TLC chairperson to kick things off.
John Mertic: Yes, yes.
16185670667: Yes, I hear
John Mertic: I hear the chats coming through. Awesome.
Awesome.
John Mertic: Well well congratulations.
John Mertic: Kip, you are the TLC chairperson, the inaugural one
John Mertic: Um, I will leave it to the group decided to fake determine the cadence of where they would run a reevaluate this. It's not as the decision. Everyone has to make today but you know some projects, choose to re evaluated on a
John Mertic: periodic basis so
John Mertic: I will leave it to that.
Kip Twitchell: I'm committed for a week.
Kip Twitchell: John so
John Mertic: Hey you know what that that works. That works.
John Mertic: Awesome. Well, thank you so much for keeping congratulations.
John Mertic: You know, on being elected amongst your peers.
John Mertic: Nothing. I'm from a secretarial point of view, if there's someone who's really interested in doing this role on a permanent or, you know, a long standing basis.
John Mertic: Definitely step forward and another option is if the project just wants to rotate around these duties on a meeting by meeting basis.
Kip Twitchell: I could I could return the
Kip Twitchell: Favor Andrea, there was speaking
Kip Twitchell: Andrew, would you be willing to serve as our Secretary
Andrea orth: Afraid you
Andrea orth: Know,
Andrea orth: Fair Play and all that.
Kip Twitchell: Yeah.
John Mertic: That'd be fun. Awesome. Sure.
John Mertic: Awesome.
John Mertic: Thank you so much. Andrea and congratulations for being selected, and I'm sure here's
John Mertic: A great. Awesome. Alright, well, we are we are rocking through this agenda here I'm
John Mertic: Hip. I don't know if you have handy, where the
John Mertic: Checklist on the transition infrastructure. I don't know if you have that handy and maybe you can
12068498832: Do
In and
Kip Twitchell: I can share I'm disabled from sharing
12068498832: Oh,
12068498832: I probably need to give access to you for that.
John Mertic: Hopefully you guys have access now.
Kip Twitchell: Looks like good. Awesome.
John Mertic: So for context here. So this is a checklist that we provide a lot of new projects to kind of help guide them through all of really the action items from the point of the Technical Advisory Council accepting them as an incubation project.
John Mertic: To graduation.
John Mertic: And you know, we find kind of having a
John Mertic: Sort of something we've started to put in our last few
John Mertic: Projects that we've launched and it's been a really useful tool to help sort of guide folks through the process and just really get
12068498832: A lot of the
John Mertic: key pieces together here.
John Mertic: And this is also up in the Geneva ERS Community Github it's
John Mertic: Under the TLC repository.
John Mertic: Under the file readme. So you can definitely check where we're all of that sits there.
John Mertic: As I'm sort of scanning this here.
John Mertic: It sounds like. Again, a lot of the big things are really got underway. Here, you know, the contribution policies.
John Mertic: And things like that had been aligned on. I don't know. Kip if if
John Mertic: Members of the TSP have
John Mertic: Had a chance to review a lot of those to this point.
Kip Twitchell: Or other
Kip Twitchell: Okay, probably not. And that would be a good thing to do. JOHN has to kind of going through this. So,
Kip Twitchell: Just again to restate friends.
Kip Twitchell: We are we, we have under GitHub, we have what's
Kip Twitchell: Called an organization.
Kip Twitchell: Geneva ERS is an organization that has multiple repositories under it. For those of you that are new.
Kip Twitchell: To get hub and how that works.
Kip Twitchell: Are our community organization was the first one created and and it basically is administrative documents for that we have, you know, basic readme starting point for understanding the organization.
Kip Twitchell: we've outlined a, a, an initial
Kip Twitchell: Governance document and contribution, how to contribute.
Kip Twitchell: We have been working on List of repositories that we
Kip Twitchell: We are planning to use
Kip Twitchell: And these are list of people that are updating repositories today that that own source code today and their access to those. So all of that is is work that's
Kip Twitchell: Underway under this right and then happy to have comments back at one good way to comment back is an issue if there's something you see that should be changed if there's a spelling error. Happy to have you.
Kip Twitchell: Take a fork of the project and and correct spelling errors and submit that back to a pull request because this is an open source community. You have the right to to suggest changes to any of these things.
Kip Twitchell: So we'd love to have you. You do that we are planning to use GitHub for the for the the tooling and we've we've established the mailing list that you joined in order. There is a Slack channel.
Kip Twitchell: For open mainframe, I guess maybe if I were to actually go briefly to make this clear as well. We have created a homepage.
Kip Twitchell: Geneva ers.org and there's some activities listed here training about museum historical documents about safir as it was known in IBM before IBM is Geneva ers. And there's a number of things that you can do to get connected to the to the Slack channel here on that as well.
Kip Twitchell: So I think, you know, I don't know that we'll go through that and a lot of detail here john and got more to do on that one other thing that I probably do want to show is that we have
Kip Twitchell: We've made, we kind of have two initiatives that we've been working on the last few weeks.
Kip Twitchell: GV be live is the first repository where we've actually put out source code. Our first set of source code is a module called
Kip Twitchell: Which is a
Kip Twitchell: It's an IO routine. It's a Geneva Ohio handler that can be used outside of Geneva we planning to add other small routines here, but this is our first our first set of source code that actually is out.
Kip Twitchell: Out on on the committed to the repository and the the open source. So use freely, if you have, if you want to read and look learn assembler, you've got all all you need to do there.
Kip Twitchell: Another place that we're working more actively in in the code is changing more rapidly, we hope will be changing more rapidly is under the spark PRC
Kip Twitchell: You're trying to
Kip Twitchell: Demonstrate kind of to the community, how Geneva relates to Apache Spark. There's some similarities that we found between those things and some things that we might do to
Kip Twitchell: more tightly integrate those even in the opening tech meeting from from the open mainframe project, a month ago.
Kip Twitchell: Some of the questions immediately were about Apache Spark and Geneva's relationship to it. So this is a place where we're running some some work Daily Scrum calls Monday through Thursday at
Kip Twitchell: 4pm Central Time us on on seeing if we can show to people how to how Geneva relates to spark. So those are our two repositories right now.
Kip Twitchell: Andrea has been and Sandy previous helping us with the spark PLC primarily on that.
Kip Twitchell: Andrea orth is also working with another repository will be building, which is the the documentation and the resource repository resources for the install scripts and dB to database definition.
Kip Twitchell: And GCM sample ACL and the documentation database might initially contain a Getting Started Guide for the
Kip Twitchell: For using Jimmy BRS and we're working in a certain sense to try to get ready as john said for the
Kip Twitchell: For the open mainframe summit in the middle of September, we'd like to have some things that we can demonstrate we've done as part of that process. Okay.
Kip Twitchell: One more thing before I pause there for a moment just to make it clear at the bottom of this checklist and we still have things to do here like hold we
Kip Twitchell: Need to work on on a project logo and and some of those things. But, and that's part of our marketing steps that need to go on, but I want you to be aware, we're an incubation project right now, not a active stage project we have
Kip Twitchell: The open mainframe project, as I understand it from john would like to see projects move to an active status within about a year.
Kip Twitchell: Of having started and to make an active status. We have to complete these steps. So these are kind of our longer term goals for the project, from my perspective, complete the proposal process to become an active, we have to have competitors from multiple organizations.
Kip Twitchell: We have to have achieved a core infrastructure initiative, best practices badge.
Kip Twitchell: And we have to we've done our project governance and committee process, but of course we need some feedback on that. After tonight's meetings and refine those over time, we need to have a public List of project adopters.
Kip Twitchell: Of at least one of our primary repos.
Kip Twitchell: Code licensing scan and we're doing this as we do that. Put the code into the repositories.
Kip Twitchell: We have to elect to a project leader to represent us on the attack when we become an active project and we have to get a super majority vote from the task.
Kip Twitchell: To become an active stage project. So those are kind of our longer term goals. The will be working as a community here to turn our check into an active project.
Kip Twitchell: I'll pause
Kip Twitchell: Comments, questions, anything from
Kip Twitchell: That side of things.
Kip Twitchell: John any comments you'd make on on how any of the how we're doing what we should
Kip Twitchell: What we should be focusing
John Mertic: Yeah, no, I think you're thinking about things definitely all the right way and and I would encourage everyone to sort of review through some of the contribution policies and things of that nature.
John Mertic: And, you know, once I think the, you know, get familiar with it, and maybe at the next meeting might even be a good opportunity just to kind of dig more if people have any questions or obviously
John Mertic: Any of those. We can also help answer any future meeting of the the technical steering committee as well. So definitely don't
John Mertic: Do not hesitate to ever reach out to ask questions about any of how the governance processes and things that work and also what any of the implications might be for your organization, being able to participate, you know in in that light as well.
John Mertic: We're always happy to to advise in any way their shape or form. Um, yeah, I mean, I think, you know, very much a lot of the low hanging fruit. You know that I that I think will be really helpful for the community is honestly just kind of some very
John Mertic: Simple bits like kind of getting a logo Troy chosen, which I know can always be one of the more challenging things for a tech but
John Mertic: I think
John Mertic: You know, the, I think getting some of that together might be, you know, very helpful.
John Mertic: You know, outside of that, um, you know, I think, otherwise the progress is really beginning to start to move forward really well and
John Mertic: Yeah, I think, I think there's progress they're going, and I think it looks like kip you brought up some of the logo concepts that were shared over the Slack channel.
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, so I was going to go there.
Kip Twitchell: John because I think of getting ready for the open mainframe project summit next month. Right. This is a place where we want to have
Kip Twitchell: Our, our project added as part of the the open mainframe project.
Kip Twitchell: Landscape.
12068498832: And so we want to make sure that we get to
Kip Twitchell: The not going to try to type that now, but so this is part of doing that.
Kip Twitchell: I know there's been some discussions and we haven't really had it in a, in a, it's been more one off.
Kip Twitchell: Sort of discussions, I'd like to
Kip Twitchell: Encourage people to be adding as a thread here.
Kip Twitchell: In the Slack channel.
Kip Twitchell: So in in the
Kip Twitchell: Open mainframe slack workspace.
Kip Twitchell: There's a Geneva ERS channel and if you, you know, make a thread comment on this or some ideas here. We've had john just so you're aware there's been a couple of comments about that the Logos nice but
Kip Twitchell: People weren't too thrilled with the down arrow of the logo. So we might want to think about rather than going down.
Kip Twitchell: A direction. That's a bit more positive and down this kind of one of the comments that I've heard back but
Kip Twitchell: Those that's one space that I think we do need
12068498832: Comments back on the team.
Kip Twitchell: To get this settled over the course of the next few weeks.
John Mertic: Yeah, absolutely. And any, any feedback you have, you know, please let us know. I mean, our design team kind of takes a little bit of a stab in the dark to get things going. And, you know, tries to help you know if he wants to be very responsive to the community as a
John Mertic: Whole so yeah I mean, any, any feedback you have
John Mertic: You know when you're ready. I'm happy to take any of that. Also, back to our designers. If you have sort of specific design points and they can do another rehberg logos.
John Mertic: As a part of it.
Kip Twitchell: I'd be great, any comments on that from anyone on the call Prince.
Kip Twitchell: This is a community call guys I done my spill. It's time to step up and contribute here.
Ian C: Yeah.
12068498832: I'm sorry, go ahead and let's go. Go Randall.
12068498832: I was going to say, Kip I intended to take that Slack channel discussion and turn it into a thread today and paste in another idea for a logo and then
12068498832: Put in everybody's references there so that they would get notified, but I didn't get a chance to do that today. But I'm hoping to do that tomorrow, and I'll paste in my my sample group archetype. Excellent.
Kip Twitchell: And you were gonna say something
Ian C: Yeah.
Ian C: Not regarding the logo.
Ian C: In terms of
Ian C: Committing etc.
Ian C: Do we need to sign a
Ian C: Committed agreement, like we do an Apache or whatever.
Kip Twitchell: Yeah, so
Kip Twitchell: When you sign off on the chronic community, our
Kip Twitchell: Our process for signing off.
Kip Twitchell: Is that you do basically agree on your contribution. So it's a fairly simple thing that you do.
Kip Twitchell: As part of if you do I get commit
Kip Twitchell: Dash s that signs off and says you are you are doing it to
12068498832: Develop a certificate of
Kip Twitchell: Origin for your contributions to the to the project. And so that's the very simple way of doing it.
Kip Twitchell: You're going to
Kip Twitchell: Your code base should have a simple
Kip Twitchell: Copyright
Kip Twitchell: If you want to put a copyright holder years
Kip Twitchell: And if you include this
Kip Twitchell: This little
Kip Twitchell: Label right here.
Kip Twitchell: That says that your source code is eligible to be used under the Apache 2.0 license. So our project Are all of our junior ERS projects is a working under the patching 2.0 license.
Ian C: Sure, yeah. Okay, I just, I seem to remember
Ian C: There was some sort of legal thing about being a member of the project. It'll least the wasn't Apache, but
Ian C: I talked about how the Linux Foundation does things
John Mertic: Yeah, I can. I can jump in there.
John Mertic: Are
John Mertic: Many of our projects we tend to be very agnostic, of how projects wish to approach contribution sign off.
John Mertic: We're
John Mertic: The plurality of open mainframe.
John Mertic: Hosted projects have been and actually
John Mertic: We've generally seen this trend in most of our communities.
John Mertic: Is they leverage the developer certificate of origin which kip a described. But basically, and you can kind of read a little bit more about it.
John Mertic: If you go to developer
developer certificate
John Mertic: Yeah, if you go to developer certificate org
John Mertic: The link in the chat here for everyone, but basically this is the same, you know, mechanism that is used within the Linux kernel community as well.
John Mertic: And the sign off process that Cuba described in is also linked to in our contribution process. Basically, it happens on each committee and as you being the author
John Mertic: There's, there's really three things you end up certifying to, you know, one is that you're the one who you the contribution was created in whole or in part, and you have the right to submit it or
John Mertic: We are you got it from. You have the permission to do it or comes under a work that is under the same open source license or one that you know is being able to submit
John Mertic: And then the final part of it is that you understand your contribution is public, and it will be a record of the contribution in definitely
John Mertic: Which is is useful.
John Mertic: You know, for a mechanism that was put together in the early aughts is is became very useful from a legal aspect.
12068498832: With things such as
John Mertic: GDPR that has come up so
John Mertic: Within a lot of our projects. This is sort of the mechanism we use, it's actually
John Mertic: Tends to be a rather large trend. We also see within the industry, the probably the mechanism that you're referring to is what's called contributor license agreements.
John Mertic: And typically, you know, they can have additional terms and pieces in there. We've found
John Mertic: And the, you know,
John Mertic: Many of the legal, you know, committee members of the open mainframe project and our project communities have generally found the lateness of the developer certificate of origin kind of creates less friction for contributions.
John Mertic: I'm certainly if there's any questions that your organization or company councils might have, you know, our the Linux Foundation. We do have in house counsel that works with projects and areas around license conformance in contribution and I'm happy to make any connections there.
John Mertic: If your console has any questions or concerns about that approach.
John Mertic: How does that
John Mertic: Hopefully that answers your question.
Ian C: Yeah, that makes it easier. The was on Apache world.
Kip Twitchell: And actually, I might say in premier from since we're both in IBM
Kip Twitchell: This was the way IBM
Kip Twitchell: Open Source community suggested we we do joining the project this way. So it's fully, fully endorsed by IBM as well.
Cool.
Kip Twitchell: Okay, excellent question.
John Mertic: Yeah, definitely.
Kip Twitchell: And and then maybe if I take that a little bit further. One thing that I I am aware, we're going to need to do a lot more of which I'm not an expert yet on
Kip Twitchell: Sandy breezy. And I've been stumbling of it through the process. We're going to have to become much better at our under standing of get GitHub and
Kip Twitchell: And how we do the first code.
Kip Twitchell: management processes in this tool. So that's a, that's a place that certainly some training is going to need to be done for us to be able to properly manage this code in an effective manner so
Ian C: Good job as a really nice.
Ian C: Set of help things on one of the pages are found a little while ago.
Yes.
Ian C: They've got they've got some great training stuff.
Ian C: And the loads of YouTube stuff.
Kip Twitchell: Yes, yes. Okay.
Kip Twitchell: Other comments, questions areas we should focus on
Kip Twitchell: From anything from our you know from our customers that are using the tool.
Kip Twitchell: Any comments that you have about where you would like to see. We'd love to have feedback in the technical steering committee about where you would like us to be focusing any capacity that comes into us from the open source community.
Kip Twitchell: I might point to to under our blog under the activity page. This gives you a bit more description of the, of the, what we're doing on the on the spark side of things.
Kip Twitchell: We'd love feedback about whether you think this future state for Geneva ERS might be useful to you in in leveraging Geneva ERS and integrating with other tools or other
Kip Twitchell: Other ways of doing things and and those kinds of things. So any comments, they're more than welcome to to have your feedback and input on where we focus the community's efforts.
Kip Twitchell: Well,
Kip Twitchell: Happy to have you join now, or you can think about that and give us comments and the next maybe give a
Kip Twitchell: An assignment, we would really would like to have some some discussion about that perhaps in our next TS see me.
Arun V PRASAD: Okay. Oh, hey. Keep this is our own. So I have a question on the proposed plan to open source the current Geneva.
Arun V PRASAD: workbench and the
Arun V PRASAD: modules that we are using so planning to open source, both the workbench and the performance engine.
Kip Twitchell: Yes, we are planning to do that around just it's a very good question. So let's make this very clear IBM today has contracts with certain customers where we provide support for what's called the IBM product is called safir the open source version will be called Geneva ers. The the
Kip Twitchell: Our intent right now is that those will be have the same functionality, the open source version and the IBM SAFA version with one and perhaps two exceptions.
Kip Twitchell: One exception for sure is that we are not able to open source zip enablement zip is a special processor on Z's that are that are lower cost processor
Kip Twitchell: And that is something that that we in in the Geneva and the sapphire world don't own that license we license that from another area of IBM
Kip Twitchell: And so the other area that there might be a difference which we're still investigating is our ability to read underlying the SAM files for dB to
Kip Twitchell: So those might be two differences between the safir the IBM distro of Jeannie the ERS, which will be called safir and the
Kip Twitchell: And the open source versions. Okay, so for the existing customers and our existing contracts and nothing changes. Open source doesn't change things in that way.
Kip Twitchell: You will still have the IBM distro and it will be under the architectural control on the IBM employees that have have in the past managed that that district. Having said that, though we are planning to work towards the process of open sourcing
Kip Twitchell: The, the, the full code base of what we have in Geneva Rs. So to give you a sense of the repos. We are planning.
Kip Twitchell: We've talked about the community repo showed you that that's our administration and we've talked a little bit about the spark PLC. This is new development going on in the GitHub world. It's not coming from an IBM contribution, per se.
Kip Twitchell: The first. The next one is our DVD live and this is more of a utility library that's kind of the foundation of some functions that are performed by the performance engine. But these functions can have uses outside of Geneva ERS like the I O module.
Kip Twitchell: The resources is the next one that will probably get built this will be for the J Cl. The DDL for the workbench.
Kip Twitchell: And the JCR for the performance engines, though, so this will be kind of the install process documentation is fairly clear. You can see here
Kip Twitchell: We also plan to have a repository on the performance engine which will have all the assembler code, minus the zip enablement macros will have a run control, which is the
Kip Twitchell: Repository will also have a workbench, which will be the the workbench. We don't see any difference right now in these last two between anything in safir or
Kip Twitchell: Geneva year, we think that these will be exactly the same code between those alas repository will be the Jeannie Jeannie the year as testing framework.
Kip Twitchell: That answer the question for
Arun V PRASAD: Yeah, that helps and keep an open source version of the performance engine will be executing mainframe right we are proposing execution a view is
Kip Twitchell: Good, so
Kip Twitchell: It. Yes, the code base that we are running right now is the it will be the assembler code that runs on CEOs on the mainframe. Yes. What we're doing here though around is talking about a little bit of the architectural direction. If I go back to
Kip Twitchell: A little bit older post from the end of June.
Kip Twitchell: We had a little bit discussion love to have some more comments back on this proposed journey. The year is 5.0 architectural direction.
Kip Twitchell: And there's some discussion that kind of talks about, would it be helpful if we started to integrate more with Apache Spark.
Kip Twitchell: Would it be helpful if we had a different way of specifying views safir in Geneva ERS logic, for example, could we consider opening up
Kip Twitchell: A more of a language definition that you could write your views in a language which then you could just store and the source code control environment, we would take that language and into a logic table. And so this starts to move from
Kip Twitchell: From purely mainframe based to there's been some discussion a little bit about what we ultimately end up with a Java version that executes the there's some alternative engine discussion down here with a Java version that executes and resolves Geneva ERS logic. So
Kip Twitchell: Glad to have more discussion on that. This is just thought provoking ideas that we put out there for discussion.
Andrea orth: Okay, thank you.
Andrea orth: Um,
Andrea orth: This is Adrian. For those who don't know me. So, speaking for myself, I would like to see some modernization.
Andrea orth: Occur in the front end.
Andrea orth: Part of that is so we can get two more modern development pride processes of CI CD side of thing pipelines small that that
Andrea orth: Outside mainframe community and other even though there are companies doing CI CD on the mainframe.
Andrea orth: And then a lot of developers are more familiar with that.
Andrea orth: model of development.
Andrea orth: That is what exists currently
Kip Twitchell: And Andrew, to your point, I sense that, you know, there's a lot of push. We can make. And we can make a difference in the broader mainframe community.
Kip Twitchell: Just with what we're doing here on open sourcing and GitHub integration. So you get hub works, it doesn't it doesn't care what your languages. Right.
Kip Twitchell: But helping mainframe developers learn a lot of this stuff is something that we can do. They can have a broader influence than just Jimmy VRS that we can leverage Scrum and Agile methods for development and have our tools move forward and and supporting those things more directly
Andrea orth: Yeah. And if there's any way in this may be way out there to figure out some use cases to integrate with various cloud data solutions that
Andrea orth: That'd be cool too.
Kip Twitchell: And that's, that's kind of where you see this, you know, patchy spark is a good surrogate for some of that discussion. It's not the only one you consider, but it is a well known one
Kip Twitchell: If we started to be able to take language in and turn it into a logic table, we probably will Geneva ERS will have a subset of smaller
Kip Twitchell: footprint of functions. It can resolve, then you could do with an Apache Spark, but there would be cases where we could take in. If the Java code had
Kip Twitchell: Use just those limited functions, the junior ERS engine may be able to resolve those much faster than then spark could even on z.
Kip Twitchell: There's other cases where our code our logic in the workbench or in our language, our new language environment could then be executed on other insurance. So we're not limited to the platform.
Kip Twitchell: JOHN I think we had planned this meeting. And I'd like to hold our meetings to an hour, particularly here in the US. If somebody joining on the East Coast will be
John Mertic: Yeah, yeah. I think we're getting probably up to the top of the hour here and I think all great points here, and we can always you know keep abreast of the infrastructure, you know, through the coming weeks here.
John Mertic: I guess the main thing I just wanted to shift on to before we clean up before you finish up here is the cadence of these meetings and timing.
John Mertic: Um, I don't know. You know, a lot of our projects can have different cadence, you know, some like to go weekly if things are in the early day some
John Mertic: Choose to, you know, stretch it out to monthly we have projects that are waiting between I guess maybe that might be the first thing just to kind of align on is what is sort of the right cadence for the meetings for this group.
Kip Twitchell: Good. I'm just going to propose you're going the same place john that I wanted to go. I would propose that we need in the short run.
Kip Twitchell: Particularly as we're working towards the September this week of September, for the open mainframe conference to be meeting multiple times. So I'd like to propose we meet in two weeks. Again, on August 25
Kip Twitchell: That would mean that we would have three steering committee meetings total before that conference to get ourselves well organized to
Kip Twitchell: represent ourselves well and whatever announcement. We make at the conference there any feedback on that from the community would this time, same time in two weeks. Tuesday or Wednesday, depending on which side of the world, you're on work for this for this discussion again.
Kip Twitchell: I don't hear any negatives. So I might take that as a topic of
Sandy Peresie: India.
Kip Twitchell: Ah, OK. OK.
Sandy Peresie: Later Easter timeframe.
Kip Twitchell: Now, I think, I think this would this would be
Kip Twitchell: A fairly okay time Sandy. I'd like to hold it here could
Sandy Peresie: That's OK. OK. That's fine.
Kip Twitchell: Okay. JOHN. So I think our next step is that I will need your help in establishing the
Kip Twitchell: The cadence of our Ts seen meetings helped me through this process.
John Mertic: Absolutely. I'll help you make sure we get those
John Mertic: On the agenda and we'll just sort of keep that
John Mertic: For the foreseeable future, and then
John Mertic: You know, as, as you would look to
John Mertic: You know, change that down the road.
12068498832: You can that we can easily do that.
Kip Twitchell: Excellent.
Can I
Kip Twitchell: If there's any
Kip Twitchell: Just a concluding thought and I'll open for anybody else to make thoughts, but I just want you to know I'm
Kip Twitchell: Excited to have the energy here.
Kip Twitchell: The question you're asking the community involvement.
12068498832: I think there's a big difference. We can make
Kip Twitchell: This we've been working in an open source kind of world engineers ERS for years now is we did come from a services background adding features to the product based upon our customers request.
Kip Twitchell: Collaboratively doing that.
Kip Twitchell: In our projects. So it's exciting to be able to do this in a more formal way and and under the auspices of the Linux Foundation have their
12068498832: Their
Kip Twitchell: Their stamp of approval on how we're trying to do this and make it an independent, non not one company on in the US.
Kip Twitchell: But an independent to community.
Kip Twitchell: That multiple parties involved in and
Kip Twitchell: Try things forward in a large way.
Kip Twitchell: Excited, have you on board.
John Mertic: Awesome.
John Mertic: Awesome. Well, yeah, work with you to get the next meeting together.
John Mertic: And I can't remember off the top my head. The individual think Bob was it
Bob McCormack: That you took this in
John Mertic: The background. Yes. Okay. Yeah. If you whenever you have some of those together, feel free to, you know, share it out to the group here and then I can make sure I can help kip get to where we can post this up in the GitHub.
John Mertic: repository for people in the future. And this meeting is also recorded, so we will make that recording also available in case people couldn't make the call.
John Mertic: Awesome.
John Mertic: Congratulations. Everyone you got your first TASC meeting. Thank you so much for those of you who've been up at all hours of the night to make this work and
John Mertic: definitely look forward to collaborating with this meeting future meetings, you will hear mostly from Kip, and I will be more in the background, but always happy to jump in. We needed
Kip Twitchell: Thanks for scholarship time
John Mertic: Also, awesome.
John Mertic: Awesome. Take care everyone
Okay.
Ian C: curiosities guys